the big Oh notation defines an upper bound of a function
Let us say our function is f(n) and
it grows like this when the size of input increases
then what will be the upper bound of f(n)
We will find some other function
say g(n) in such a way that c*g(n)
is always greater than f(n) and for all
the values of n greater than or equal to
n0 if we find any such function we can
say f(n) is O(g(n))
That brings us to the definition of big Oh notation
the function f(n)
is O(g(n)) if and only
if their excess positive constancy and and n0 such that
f(n) is less than or equal to c*g(n)
for all n greater than or equal to
n0
Let us take this example if f(n)= 5n+3
and find its upper bound
using this definition. let us write the definition here
f(n) less than or equal to c*g(n)
Here, f(n)= 5n+3 so
substituted here and we will get f(n)= 5n+3
less than or equal to c*g(n)
In this equation we have f(n) and we need to find
the remaining function g(n) and constant values of
c and
n0
First let us get some value for c*g(n)
in such a way that it will satisfy
this condition. Can be right
6n
instead of seeing to g(n). Yes we can
write anything like 10 and 100 but the only condition
is it should be greater than  5n+3
for larger values of n
Let us right 6n here and check whether it
satisfies this condition
5n+3 less than or equal 6n
Here The value of C is six and g(n)
is n
Is this relation true for all the values of n. let's
check it out. If the value of n is one
it will become five into one plus three less than
or equal to six into one which is eight less
than or equal to six
It's not true. if the value of n is 2
it will become five into two plus three less than
or equal to six into two which is
13 less than or equal to 12
That is also not true. If the value of n is 3
it will become five into three plus three less
than or equal to 6 into Three which is 18 less
than or equal to 18
And this is true. If the value of n is 4
it will become 23 less than or equal to 24
which is true again.
So till
n is less than 3
The condition is false but when the value of n
becomes greater than or equal to three the condition is
always true
From that what we can says five n plus three is
less than or equal to six n
is true for all n greater than or equal
to three
Here we have found a positive constant n0 which
is three
So in the equation we have found the values of
c, g(n), n0 and it satisfies all
the conditions of big oh definition
So we can say that five n plus three is
big Oh of n here
The important thing to notice this expression will be true
for all time functions which are greater than n. For example,
the following Conditions are true
Five n plus three is less than or equal to
six n square; five n plus three is less than
or equal to 10 n cube; five n plus three
is less
than or equal to 2 raised to 2. So we can
say five n plus three is big Oh of n square
Big Oh of n cube; Big Oh of 2 raised to n
Yes we can say all these are true if the
function of upper bounds to n it will be upper
bound to any time function which is greater than n
saying square; n cube etc. But when writing asymptomatic notation
We should always take the closest upper bound among all
these. Here,
The closest upper bound is n
So we have written as  five n plus tHree is
big Oh of n
And thats it. That's all about big Oh notation
And in the next video we will discuss about omega notation